documentation/docs/25-build-and-deploy/90-adapter-vercel.md, before:

---
title: Vercel
---

To deploy to Vercel, use [`adapter-vercel`](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/tree/master/packages/adapter-vercel).

This adapter will be installed by default when you use [`adapter-auto`](adapter-auto), but adding it to your project allows you to specify Vercel-specific options.

## Usage

Install with `npm i -D @sveltejs/adapter-vercel`, then add the adapter to your `svelte.config.js`:

```js
// @errors: 2307 2345
/// file: svelte.config.js
import adapter from '@sveltejs/adapter-vercel';

export default {
	kit: {
		adapter: adapter({
			// see the 'Deployment configuration' section below
		})
	}
};
```

## Deployment configuration

To control how your routes are deployed to Vercel as functions, you can specify deployment configuration, either through the option shown above or with [`export const config`](page-options#config) inside `+server.js`, `+page(.server).js` and `+layout(.server).js` files.

For example you could deploy some parts of your app as [Edge Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/edge-functions)...

```js
/// file: about/+page.js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/adapter-vercel').Config} */
export const config = {
	runtime: 'edge'
};
```

...and others as [Serverless Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions) (note that by specifying `config` inside a layout, it applies to all child pages):

```js
/// file: admin/+layout.js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/adapter-vercel').Config} */
export const config = {
	runtime: 'nodejs18.x'
};
```

The following options apply to all functions:

- `runtime`: `'edge'`, `'nodejs16.x'` or `'nodejs18.x'`. By default, the adapter will select `'nodejs16.x'` or `'nodejs18.x'` depending on the Node version your project is configured to use on the Vercel dashboard
- `regions`: an array of [edge network regions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/edge-network/regions) (defaulting to `["iad1"]` for serverless functions) or `'all'` if `runtime` is `edge` (its default). Note that multiple regions for serverless functions are only supported on Enterprise plans
- `split`: if `true`, causes a route to be deployed as an individual function. If `split` is set to `true` at the adapter level, all routes will be deployed as individual functions

Additionally, the following option applies to edge functions:
- `external`: an array of dependencies that esbuild should treat as external when bundling functions. This should only be used to exclude optional dependencies that will not run outside Node

And the following option apply to serverless functions:
- `memory`: the amount of memory available to the function. Defaults to `1024` Mb, and can be decreased to `128` Mb or [increased](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/limits/overview#serverless-function-memory) in 64Mb increments up to `3008` Mb on Pro or Enterprise accounts
- `maxDuration`: maximum execution duration of the function. Defaults to `10` seconds for Hobby accounts, `15` for Pro and `900` for Enterprise
- `isr`: configuration Incremental Static Regeneration, described below

If your functions need to access data in a specific region, it's recommended that they be deployed in the same region (or close to it) for optimal performance.

## Incremental Static Regeneration

Vercel supports [Incremental Static Regeneration](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/incremental-static-regeneration/overview) (ISR), which provides the performance and cost advantages of prerendered content with the flexibility of dynamically rendered content.

To add ISR to a route, include the `isr` property in your `config` object:

```js
/// file: blog/[slug]/+page.server.js
// @filename: ambient.d.ts
declare module '$env/static/private' {
	export const BYPASS_TOKEN: string;
}

// @filename: index.js
// ---cut---
import { BYPASS_TOKEN } from '$env/static/private';

export const config = {
	isr: {
		// Expiration time (in seconds) before the cached asset will be re-generated by invoking the Serverless Function.
		// Setting the value to `false` means it will never expire.
		expiration: 60,

		// Random token that can be provided in the URL to bypass the cached version of the asset, by requesting the asset
		// with a __prerender_bypass=<token> cookie.
		//
		// Making a `GET` or `HEAD` request with `x-prerender-revalidate: <token>` will force the asset to be re-validated.
		bypassToken: BYPASS_TOKEN,

		// List of valid query parameters. Other parameters (such as utm tracking codes) will be ignored,
		// ensuring that they do not result in content being regenerated unnecessarily
		allowQuery: ['search']
	}
};
```

The `expiration` property is required; all others are optional.

## Environment variables

Vercel makes a set of [deployment-specific environment variables](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/environment-variables#system-environment-variables) available. Like other environment variables, these are accessible from `$env/static/private` and `$env/dynamic/private` (sometimes — more on that later), and inaccessible from their public counterparts. To access one of these variables from the client:

```js
// @errors: 2305
/// file: +layout.server.js
import { VERCEL_COMMIT_REF } from '$env/static/private';

/** @type {import('./$types').LayoutServerLoad} */
export function load() {
	return {
		deploymentGitBranch: VERCEL_COMMIT_REF
	};
}
```

```svelte
<!--- file: +layout.svelte --->
<script>
	/** @type {import('./$types').LayoutServerData} */
	export let data;
</script>

<p>This staging environment was deployed from {data.deploymentGitBranch}.</p>
```

Since all of these variables are unchanged between build time and run time when building on Vercel, we recommend using `$env/static/private` — which will statically replace the variables, enabling optimisations like dead code elimination — rather than `$env/dynamic/private`.

## Notes

### Vercel functions

If you have Vercel functions contained in the `api` directory at the project's root, any requests for `/api/*` will _not_ be handled by SvelteKit. You should implement these as [API routes](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/routing#server) in your SvelteKit app instead, unless you need to use a non-JavaScript language in which case you will need to ensure that you don't have any `/api/*` routes in your SvelteKit app.

### Node version

Projects created before a certain date will default to using Node 14, while SvelteKit requires Node 16 or later. You can [change the Node version in your project settings](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions/runtimes/node-js#node.js-version).

## Troubleshooting

### Accessing the file system

You can't access the file system through methods like `fs.readFileSync` in Serverless/Edge environments. If you need to access files that way, do that during building the app through [prerendering](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/page-options#prerender). If you have a blog for example and don't want to manage your content through a CMS, then you need to prerender the content (or prerender the endpoint from which you get it) and redeploy your blog everytime you add new content.

Commit message:

chore: update the build and deploy section of the documentation

documentation/docs/25-build-and-deploy/90-adapter-vercel.md, after:

---
title: Vercel
---

To deploy to Vercel, use [`adapter-vercel`](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/tree/main/packages/adapter-vercel).

This adapter will be installed by default when you use [`adapter-auto`](adapter-auto), but adding it to your project allows you to specify Vercel-specific options.

## Usage

Install with `npm i -D @sveltejs/adapter-vercel`, then add the adapter to your `svelte.config.js`:

```js
// @errors: 2307 2345
/// file: svelte.config.js
import adapter from '@sveltejs/adapter-vercel';

export default {
	kit: {
		adapter: adapter({
			// see below for options that can be set here
		})
	}
};
```

## Deployment configuration

To control how your routes are deployed to Vercel as functions, you can specify deployment configuration, either through the option shown above or with [`export const config`](page-options#config) inside `+server.js`, `+page(.server).js` and `+layout(.server).js` files.

For example you could deploy some parts of your app as [Edge Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/edge-functions)...

```js
/// file: about/+page.js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/adapter-vercel').Config} */
export const config = {
	runtime: 'edge'
};
```

...and others as [Serverless Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions) (note that by specifying `config` inside a layout, it applies to all child pages):

```js
/// file: admin/+layout.js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/adapter-vercel').Config} */
export const config = {
	runtime: 'nodejs18.x'
};
```

The following options apply to all functions:

- `runtime`: `'edge'`, `'nodejs18.x'` or `'nodejs20.x'`. By default, the adapter will select the `'nodejs<version>.x'` corresponding to the Node version your project is configured to use on the Vercel dashboard
- `regions`: an array of [edge network regions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/edge-network/regions) (defaulting to `["iad1"]` for serverless functions) or `'all'` if `runtime` is `edge` (its default). Note that multiple regions for serverless functions are only supported on Enterprise plans
- `split`: if `true`, causes a route to be deployed as an individual function. If `split` is set to `true` at the adapter level, all routes will be deployed as individual functions

Additionally, the following option applies to edge functions:
- `external`: an array of dependencies that esbuild should treat as external when bundling functions. This should only be used to exclude optional dependencies that will not run outside Node

And the following option apply to serverless functions:
- `memory`: the amount of memory available to the function. Defaults to `1024` Mb, and can be decreased to `128` Mb or [increased](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/limits/overview#serverless-function-memory) in 64Mb increments up to `3008` Mb on Pro or Enterprise accounts
- `maxDuration`: maximum execution duration of the function. Defaults to `10` seconds for Hobby accounts, `15` for Pro and `900` for Enterprise
- `isr`: configuration Incremental Static Regeneration, described below

If your functions need to access data in a specific region, it's recommended that they be deployed in the same region (or close to it) for optimal performance.

## Image Optimization

You may set the `images` config to control how Vercel builds your images. See the [image configuration reference](https://vercel.com/docs/build-output-api/v3/configuration#images) for full details. As an example, you may set:

```
{
	sizes: [640, 828, 1200, 1920, 3840],
	formats: ['image/avif', 'image/webp'],
	minimumCacheTTL: 300
}
```

## Incremental Static Regeneration

Vercel supports [Incremental Static Regeneration](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/incremental-static-regeneration/overview) (ISR), which provides the performance and cost advantages of prerendered content with the flexibility of dynamically rendered content.

To add ISR to a route, include the `isr` property in your `config` object:

```js
/// file: blog/[slug]/+page.server.js
// @filename: ambient.d.ts
declare module '$env/static/private' {
	export const BYPASS_TOKEN: string;
}

// @filename: index.js
// ---cut---
import { BYPASS_TOKEN } from '$env/static/private';

export const config = {
	isr: {
		// Expiration time (in seconds) before the cached asset will be re-generated by invoking the Serverless Function.
		// Setting the value to `false` means it will never expire.
		expiration: 60,

		// Random token that can be provided in the URL to bypass the cached version of the asset, by requesting the asset
		// with a __prerender_bypass=<token> cookie.
		//
		// Making a `GET` or `HEAD` request with `x-prerender-revalidate: <token>` will force the asset to be re-validated.
		bypassToken: BYPASS_TOKEN,

		// List of valid query parameters. Other parameters (such as utm tracking codes) will be ignored,
		// ensuring that they do not result in content being regenerated unnecessarily
		allowQuery: ['search']
	}
};
```

The `expiration` property is required; all others are optional.

## Environment variables

Vercel makes a set of [deployment-specific environment variables](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/environment-variables#system-environment-variables) available. Like other environment variables, these are accessible from `$env/static/private` and `$env/dynamic/private` (sometimes — more on that later), and inaccessible from their public counterparts. To access one of these variables from the client:

```js
// @errors: 2305
/// file: +layout.server.js
import { VERCEL_COMMIT_REF } from '$env/static/private';

/** @type {import('./$types').LayoutServerLoad} */
export function load() {
	return {
		deploymentGitBranch: VERCEL_COMMIT_REF
	};
}
```

```svelte
<!--- file: +layout.svelte --->
<script>
	/** @type {import('./$types').LayoutServerData} */
	export let data;
</script>

<p>This staging environment was deployed from {data.deploymentGitBranch}.</p>
```

Since all of these variables are unchanged between build time and run time when building on Vercel, we recommend using `$env/static/private` — which will statically replace the variables, enabling optimisations like dead code elimination — rather than `$env/dynamic/private`.

## Notes

### Vercel functions

If you have Vercel functions contained in the `api` directory at the project's root, any requests for `/api/*` will _not_ be handled by SvelteKit. You should implement these as [API routes](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/routing#server) in your SvelteKit app instead, unless you need to use a non-JavaScript language in which case you will need to ensure that you don't have any `/api/*` routes in your SvelteKit app.

### Node version

Projects created before a certain date may default to using an older Node version than what SvelteKit currently requires. You can [change the Node version in your project settings](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions/runtimes/node-js#node.js-version).

## Troubleshooting

### Accessing the file system

You can't access the file system through methods like `fs.readFileSync` in Serverless/Edge environments. If you need to access files that way, do that during building the app through [prerendering](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/page-options#prerender). If you have a blog for example and don't want to manage your content through a CMS, then you need to prerender the content (or prerender the endpoint from which you get it) and redeploy your blog everytime you add new content.
